Add blog post "Exploring the thread mode in PyFlink" (#530)
apache/flink-web: _posts/2022-04-24-pyflink-1.15-thread-mode.md

Before Flink 1.15, Python user-defined functions will be executed in separate Python processes (based on the [Apache Beam Portability Framework](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1B9NmaBSKCnMJQp-ibkxvZ_U233Su67c1eYgBhrqWP24/edit#heading=h.khjybycus70)).
It will bring additional serialization/deserialization overhead and also communication overhead. In scenarios where the data size is big, e.g. image processing, etc,
this overhead becomes non-negligible. Besides, since it involves inter-process communication, the processing latency is also non-negligible,
which is unacceptable in scenarios where the latency is critical, e.g. quantitative transaction, etc.

In Flink 1.15, we have introduced a new execution mode named 'thread' mode (based on [PEMJA](https://github.com/alibaba/pemja)) where the Python user-defined functions will be executed in the JVM as
a thread instead of a separate Python process. In this article, we will dig into the details about this execution mode and also share some benchmark data to
give users a basic understanding of how it works and which scenarios it’s applicable for.

> 

Reviewer: Add catalogue as following: 
```
{% toc %}
```

<table width="95%" border="1">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="text-align: center">Execution Mode</th>
      <th style="text-align: center">Benefits</th>
      <th style="text-align: center">Limitations</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">Process Mode</td>
      <td style="text-align: justify">
        <ul>
          <li>Better resource isolation</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align: justify">
        <ul>
          <li>IPC overhead</li>
          <li>High implementation complexity</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">Thread Mode</td>
      <td style="text-align: justify">
        <ul>
          <li>Higher throughput</li>
          <li>Lower latency</li>
          <li>Less checkpoint time</li>
          <li>Less usage restrictions</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align: justify">
        <ul>
          <li>Only support for CPython</li>
          <li>Multiple jobs cannot use different Python interpreters in session mode</li>
          <li>Performance is affected by the GIL</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

> `Benefits of thread mode`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Benefits of thread mode
```

Since it processes data in batches in process mode, currently Python user-defined functions could not be used in some scenarios,
e.g. used in the Join(Table API & SQL) condition and taking columns both from the left table and the right table as inputs.
However, this will not be a big problem any more in thread mode because of the nature that it handles the data one by one instead of a batch.

Unlike process mode which sends and receives data asynchronously in batches, in thread mode, data will be processed synchronously one by one.
So usually it will have lower latency and also less checkpoint time. In terms of performance, since there is no inter-process communication,
it could avoid data serialization/deserialization and communication overhead, as well as the stage of copying and context switching between kernel space and user space,
so it usually will have better performance in thread mode.

> `Limitations`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Limitations
```

However, there are also some limitations for thread mode:

 - It only supports CPython which is also one of the most used Python interpreters.
 - It doesn’t support session mode well and so it’s recommended that users only use thread mode in per-job or application deployments.
The reason is it doesn’t support using different Python interpreters for the jobs running in the same TaskManager.
This limitation comes from the fact that many Python libraries assume that they will only be initialized once in the process, so they use a lot of static variables.

## Usage

The execution mode could be configured via the configuration `python.execution-mode`. It has two possible values:

 - `process`: The Python user-defined functions will be executed in a separate Python process. (default)
 - `thread`: The Python user-defined functions will be executed in the same process as Java operators.

> 

Reviewer: For example, you could configure it as following in Python Table API:

      <td style="text-align: center">1ms</td>
      <td style="text-align: center">100ms</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">Thread Mode (10k)</td>
      <td style="text-align: center">1.2w</td>
      <td style="text-align: center">20us</td>
      <td style="text-align: center">10ms</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">Thread Mode (1k)</td>
      <td style="text-align: center">5w</td>
      <td style="text-align: center">3us</td>
      <td style="text-align: center">10ms</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">Thread Mode (100)</td>
      <td style="text-align: center">12w</td>
      <td style="text-align: center">1us</td>
      <td style="text-align: center">10ms</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2022-04-24-pyflink-1.15-thread-mode/pyflink-performance.jpg"/>
</center>

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2022-04-24-pyflink-1.15-thread-mode/pyflink-latency.jpg"/>
</center>

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/2022-04-24-pyflink-1.15-thread-mode/pyflink-checkpoint-time.jpg"/>
</center>

As we can see from the test results:

>  * If you care about latency and checkpoint time, thread mode is your better choice than process mode. The processing latency is decreased from several seconds in process mode to microseconds in thread mode. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * If you care about latency and checkpoint time, thread mode is your better choice. The processing latency could be decreased from several seconds in process mode to microseconds in thread mode. 
```
Nit

 * Thread mode can bring better performance than process mode when data serialization/deserialization is not negligible relative to UDF calculation itself.
Compared to process mode, benchmark has shown that the throughput could be increased by 2x in common scenarios such as json processing in thread mode.

> ​​On the contrary, it is more recommended to use process mode, because different processes have better resource isolation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if the UDF calculation is slow and spends much longer time, then it is more recommended to use process mode, because the process mode is more mature and it has better resource isolation.
```
